---
layout: post
title: "Idea pool"
date: 2015-10-11 19:49:54
categories: ideas
tags: ideas graph community-detection
---

# Applications of community detection 

## Library/software community

Question: what are the communities in the Python software ecosystem?

Graph: two software or github repository are connected if either one of them imports the other.

Also, we can run many interesting graph mining algorithms on the repository graph, for example:

1. PageRank
2. Hub finding


## Code repository similarity

A good metric that gives high similarty score of flask to tornado? Or is there a way to detect similar repositories by leveraging seatrch query? For example, tornado and flask occurs more often(higher mutual information)

## Share the music in mind

I want myself by heard. Especially the piece of music in my mind. How about an app that listens to me sing and finds the corresponding music and share it online?


## Writing more reusable code

We are constantly producing redundant code patterns(`for if` --> `map`).

Is there a way to detect the code redundancy so we can write more reusable code?


# Summarizing/visualizing software repository

Provide the big picture of a piece of software. Something similar to [https://strongriley.github.io/d3/ex/pack.html](Circle packing)

Related: [Software Visualization Research](http://vidi.cs.ucdavis.edu/research/softvis)

# Summarizing software deveopment

- What were we doing during different time periods?
- What are the characteristic functions/objects that are actively developed at different time periods?
