---
layout: post
title:  "Personalized Entity Recommendation: A Heterogeneous Information Network Approach"
date:   2015-09-06 16:55:47
categories: paper
tags: meta-path recommendation heterogeneous-network ranking-based-learning
---

## Motivation

Existing approach:

- NMF directly on the implicit feedback matrix to get the representation for users and items
- global recommendation model for all users


Novelty here:

- **User preference dillusion**: Use meta-path to derive user-item similarity matrix and apply NMF on each of them to get the latent features
- **personalized recommendation model**: cluster users into differnt groups and for each group, derive group-specific feature weights. For final score, user-cluster similarity is also considered.

## Approach

### User preference dillusion

Define different meta-paths for different semantics. Using movie context for example, we can define the following math-paths:

- `user-movie-tag-movie`: user might be interested another movie with the same tag that is contained by one move he watches
- `user-movie-actor-movie`: user might be interested to another movie by the same actor in one movie he watched before

Using the `PathSim` measure, we can define *user-movie* measure as `\sum\limit_e^' (s(e, e^'))`, where `e \in ` all the movies the user watches. It's simply matrix multiplication.

For `L` meta-paths, we will have `L` user-item matrices. And we apply NMF on each of them to derive the path-specific user/item representaiton.

The final score can be the weighted sum of the individual scores, `\sum\limit_l \theta_l U_i V_j`, where `U_i` and `V_j` are the representation for the `ith` user and `jth` item respectively. However, this is referred to the global model, where `L` weight parameters are shared across all the users.

### Personalized recommendation model

Global model does not distinguish between different users. Users might be interested in the same movie for different reasons.

Users are clustered into `K` groups. The cluster algorithm and user representation is flexible to choose. And there are `KL` weight parameters, `L` for each group. When calculating the final scores, `\sum_k c(i, k)\sum\limit_l \theta_{kl} U_i V_j`, where `c(i, k)` are the similarity between the `ith` user and `kth` group.

### Ranking-based learning

For implicit feedback, it's unreasonable to assume negative label for entry with value 0. 0 is a mixture of "not-interested" and "unwatched". A *weaker* assumption is user is more interested in items with value 1 than those with value 0.

The likelihood is `\prod\limit_{u_i} \prod\limit_{(e_a, e_b)} P(e_a > e_b; u_i | \theta)`.

Adding Gaussian prior, the posterior `P(\theta|R)` is sum of log-likelihood plus L2 regularization.

Stochastic gradient descent can be applied here.


## What I have learned

- Matrix factorization can be used for recommendation problem. Content information as well as network information can be leveraged to fight sparsity.
- Meta path here is used for user preference dillusion
- Ranking-based learning: there should be resources and variants on it
- Clustering is here used as bridge to add personalization(more granularity) while keeping the parameter space relatively modest. 
- Using Gaussian as the prior in the ranking-based optimization lead to L2 optimization
- precision-at-position and top-k mean reciprocal as the evaluation for ranking-based models. 
- Root mean square error as the evaluation for explicit feedback model
- Performance analysis on the user feedback sparsity and item popularity is necessary for deeper understanding
- For collaborative filtering, sparsity is a problem. Possible direction is to leverage external knowledge(network structure, user profile)

## Question / future

- Why matrix factorization is better than other methods for CF problem?
- How NMF is done?
- How content information can be incorporated? Maybe as links between entities
- How to co online recommendation? New user/item is being added.
- Learn from explicit and implicit feedback simultaneously? Rating scores plus watch history
- How to scale it up, e.g,  when there are millions of movies to recommend?

## Related paper

### CF technique

- T. Hofmann. Collaborative filtering via gaussian probabilistic latent semantic analysis. In SIGIR, 2003
- B. Sarwar, G. Karypis, J. Konstan, and J. Riedl. Item-based collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms. In WWW, 2001.

### Matrix factorization for CF

- Y. Koren. Factorization meets the neighborhood: a multifaceted collaborative filtering model. In SIGKDD, 2008.
- Y. Koren, R. Bell, and C. Volinsky. Matrix factorization techniques for recommender systems. Computer, 42(8):30–37, 2009.
- J. D. Rennie and N. Srebro. Fast maximum margin matrix factorization for collaborative prediction. In ICML, 2005.

### CF that uses content-based information

- Q. Gu, J. Zhou, and C. Ding. Collaborative filtering: Weighted nonnegative matrix factorization incorporating user and item graphs. In SDM, 2010.
- P. Melville, R. J. Mooney, and R. Nagarajan. Content-boosted collaborative filtering for improved recommendations. In AAAI, 2002.

### CF that uses network information

- H. Ma, I. King, and M. R. Lyu. Learning to recommend with social trust ensemble. In SIGIR, 2009.
- M. Jamali and M. Ester. A matrix factorization technique with trust propagation for recommendation in social networks. In SIGKDD, 2010.
- H. Ma, H. Yang, M. Lyu, and I. King. Sorec: social recommendation using probabilistic matrix factorization. In CIKM, 2008.
- I. Guy, N. Zwerdling, D. Carmel, I. Ronen, E. Uziel, S. Yogev, and S. Ofek-Koifman. Personalized recommendation of social software items based on social relations. In RecSys, 2009.
- Q. Yuan, L. Chen, and S. Zhao. Factorization vs. regularization: fusing heterogeneous social relationships in top-n recommendation. In RecSys, 2011.

### CF that uses entity similarity

- X. Yu, X. Ren, Q. Gu, Y. Sun, and J. Han. Collaborative filtering with entity similarity regularization in heterogeneous information networks. In IJCAI HINA, 2013.

### Bayesian personalized ranking

- S. Rendle, C. Freudenthaler, Z. Gantner, and L. Schmidt-Thieme. Bpr: Bayesian personalized ranking from implicit feedback. In UAI, 2009.

### NMF

- C. H. Ding, T. Li, and M. I. Jordan. Convex and semi-nonnegative matrix factorizations. PAMI, 2010.
- Q. Gu, J. Zhou, and C. Ding. Collaborative filtering: Weighted nonnegative matrix factorization incorporating user and item graphs. In SDM, 2010.
- H. Ma, H. Yang, M. Lyu, and I. King. Sorec: social recommendation using probabilistic matrix factorization. In CIKM, 2008.


### Information network applications

- Y. Sun, B. Norick, J. Han, X. Yan, P. S. Yu, and X. Yu. Integrating meta-path selection with user guided object clustering in heterogeneous information networks. In KDD, 2012
- Y. Sun, Y. Yu, and J. Han. Ranking-based clustering of heterogeneous information networks with star network schema. In KDD, 2009.
- M. Ji, J. Han, and M. Danilevsky. Ranking-based classification of heterogeneous information networks. In SIGKDD, 2011.
- T.-T. Kuo, R. Yan, Y.-Y. Huang, P.-H. Kung, and S.-D. Lin. Unsupervised link prediction using aggregative statistics on heterogeneous social networks. In SIGKDD. ACM, 2013.
- X. Yu, Q. Gu, M. Zhou, and J. Han. Citation prediction in heterogeneous bibliographic networks. In SDM, 2012.
